greetings once again my Jean I the
hogweed listeners one and all Laszlo
Montgomery here with another China
history podcast by the time we finished
with today's topic will be just a tad
over two centuries away from that
demarcation point of AD Anno Domini the
year of our Lord the BC days will soon
be coming to a close we're gonna look at
the other half of the Jo dynasty today
well almost half the Eastern Jo lasted
well depending on who you ask 772 to 56
BC that's about 515 years last week we
looked at the Western Cho which preceded
this period only had about mmm half the
longevity of the eastern jo if you
recall from the previous podcast I gave
a brief overview of the Jo and you might
remember the eastern Jo was divided up
into two time periods some of the most
core of core values in the Chinese
speaking world started growing during
this time in China this was the time of
all the great philosophers Confucius
included it was the Golden Age of
feudalism at a time when iron was
revolutionising how people lived and
prospered in their ordinary daily lives
the various states spread out over the
four provinces adjacent to the Yellow
River yielded some of the greatest
stories and legends from ancient China
even to this day when you walk down the
streets of Hong Kong Taiwan Singapore
Beijing or even any Chinatown all kinds
of icons gods heroes and sages on so
many have a connection to the eight
centuries that the Jo Kings reign they
reigned but they only ruled for maybe a
couple of those centuries and that's
being generous so today we look at the
eastern Cho period that again ran from
770 to 256 BC now I'm gonna interchange
the terms eastern jo and spring and
autumn and warring States period the
former term was comprised of the latter
two so what else was going on in the
world quite a lot
Zoroaster Solon Gautama Buddha Socrates
Plato Herodotus Sophocles Aristotle
Thucydides Pythagoras Hippocrates
the Babylonian captivity of the Jews the
Persian Empire and their amazing King
Cyrus the Great and speaking of great
Alexander the great triumphs during the
time of the warring States period the
birth of the Roman Republic in fact the
First Punic War is already raging
between Carthage and Rome when the Joe
dynasty begins to breathe its last a lot
of stuff going on in the east and the
west and record keep being kept getting
better by the day pretty much from this
point forward there are plenty of
historical records that have survived to
modern times a lot has been lost - but
there's less and less guessing about
dates and who wrote or said what and
when was this battle or that change of
regime or this treaty as I mentioned
this period was divided almost evenly
between the spring and autumn period
from 770 to 476 BC and the warring
States period from 475 to 221 BC - 21 BC
of course being the day xx sure Wandy
finally defeats all these other states
and China are what comprised China back
then is united under one single emperor
and for this Qing Chuang D the Qin
Emperor's remembered as the historical
figure from whose name we get the word
China now the Jo dynasty itself died out
in 256 BC three five years before the
Qin was founded but we'll get to that
later
now why the names of this period these
spring and autumn and warring States
spring and autumn came from the
twin-choke or the spring and autumn
annals which chronicled the state of Liu
in what is today southern Shandong
province this historical text covered
the goings-on in the loose state from
77241 BC this is the earliest historical
text in China that chronicles a time
period year by year
that's why scholars call the work the
spring and autumn annals Confucius was
credited with writing or editing this
text he resided in the loose state and
all shunned own people who live in the
land that was the former loose state
share this special closeness with the
Great Sage even today in the 21st
century when you're driving in that
beautiful coastal province where qingdao
is located you still see the Lule
character on the license plate to
designate that
this car or truck or whatever is
registered in Shandong Province you
still see that linkage to the ancient
Chinese state that developed in that
land three millennia before now without
the help of the commentaries of jaw the
jaw chuan it would be quite tedious and
iffy to comprehend each wind chill these
commentaries went chapter by chapter and
while not exactly a rosetta stone or
anything it really brought these ancient
texts to light the twin show along with
some watch ends record of the grand
historian make up some of the most
important sources for the bronze and
early Iron Age period in China during
the spring and autumn period you had
about a hundred and forty-eight states
left that slowly consolidated down to
about thirty the second phase of the
eastern choke period saw these 30 states
dissolve down to about seven and these
seven battled each other during what was
known as the junk washer dike or the
warring States Period once again the
name derived from the definitive text of
that period the warring States annals
are John court so this was a
chronological work like the twin show
and it was a veritable fount of
information regarding the battles
diplomacy social customs and
intellectual character of this period
there were 256 wars that raged during
the last four centuries of the Eastern
Jo the Jo dynasty King stood by
toothless and often disrespected by
Psalm and frequently challenged they
became pawns and all these battles for
hegemony between the competing states
that surrounded the Jo lands the whole
tone of the Spring and Autumn Period and
of the Eastern Jo is set almost from the
get-go as the Jo Kings are challenged
directly by the powers from the state of
Jeong not too far from the new capital
in law Yong they push the Jo around
plenty and took advantage of their
weakness to basically get their own
people in our position of power
the first Jo king of the Spring and
Autumn Period was king king who was
inserted into power by these states of
Jung and Jean the most famous leader of
this period John Dromgoole
aka Duke Trung of the
Jung through his brute force of arms and
might ruled in the name of the Jo kings
up to 701 BC the junk state was a flash
in the pan and once jung hong kong died
this whole state fell apart and then it
was replaced by the greatest of them all
or at least for a while the state of Chi
in the northern part of present-day
Shandong when you talk about the Chi
state you have to mention duquon or
shiwan khan and his capable and superb
minister wang chong now duquon story is
well documented about how he came to
prominence and ultimately got elected as
the first of the five hegemon or bow of
the spring and autumn period the hegemon
well they had hegemony over the less
powerful states of the Spring and Autumn
Period and of course the hegemon
dominated the Jo Kings who remain pawns
of whoever was the one pulling the
strings at the time the Chi are given
great credit for building strong Chinese
institutions on top of the foundation
that had been laid during the Western Jo
let's focus for a minute on Guan Zhong
who do Quan had hand-picked to become
the prime minister it's one of those
great stories how guan zhong came into
the employ of do quan but for now we'll
just focus on his achievements he was a
master organizer guan zhong was it was
guan zhong who made the transition from
bronze to iron and promoted iron weapons
and tools he raised revenues for the
state by instituting a government
monopoly on salt and iron that she
became a very rich and well ordered
state during the spring and autumn
period Guan Zhong is also credited with
stabilizing the currency putting in
place a uniform and fair tax code and in
general assured in one of the models of
efficient administration guan zhong
selected talented administrators from
the aristocrats and bureaucrats rather
than using the old tried-and-true
methods of promoting within the family
alone it was just a golden and
flourishing time in that part of china
confucius allegedly said of Guanzhong
quote down to the present day the people
enjoy the gifts which he conferred but
for guan zhong we would now be wearing
our
here disheveled in our Lapiths of our
coat buttoned on the left meaning the
people of chi would be like barbarians
who back then button their garments on
the left-hand side in such high esteem
did the Great Sage hold Guangzhou it was
guan zhong who said in so many words
make people economically well-off and
ensure them a stable life and educate
them in the rites and to respect the
rulers it worked well in china for a
long time the rise of the shoe or the
nightly class was another phenomenon of
the spring and autumn and warring states
period the sure were all those
generations of offspring who came from
the people who served the kings served
the princes and assorted royalty and
other nobility
they were the men-at-arms those who
wrote and preserve documents experts and
many branches of knowledge they weren't
noblemen but were essential to the
nobility for their cleverness and their
industry this class of sure were the
first executive officials in China and
from them spraying the bureaucrats that
almost defying the imperial court in
China for another 3,000 years
once Kwan Chung and duquon passed from
the same that she starts to decline you
know there are so many stories and
sidebars to the twin show and changhua
periods rather than delve into them here
I'm going to save a bunch of these
stories for future podcasts we're sort
of flying over Chinese history here at
10,000 feet and not focusing in on too
much detail we'll get the overview first
before we get into more detail with all
these fascinating periods I'm just gonna
glide past some of the other Kings had
Jevons and heroes and we're gonna stop
and look at oh well another of theif
I've had Germans Lord one of Jean Jean
when hope he lived from 697 to 628 BC he
was known in history as Joan are there
were two physical deformities attributed
to Joan are both of them perhaps
misconstrued or something else but the
words Chong are translate to double
aired he's one of the central characters
of the absorbed Wong or the commentaries
of soil which
chronicles the each wind chill period
toner was the son of the ruler of the
gene states located mostly north of the
Yellow River and shun she threw a
concatenation of bad luck he's forced to
flee into exile and 655 BC and goes on
his 19-year Odyssey traveling from
kingdom to Kingdom and facing all kinds
of hardships along the way but he gains
Fame and a hard-earned reputation as a
wise and just man and upon his return to
the state of Jin in 636 bc brother
conveniently dies and he becomes the
next Duke of Jin and goes down in
history as Jean wankum one of the first
things he does is restore the Joe King
to the throne after he had been dumped
in favor of the king of some other
states trying to rule as head of the Jo
then 634 BC you of the Battle of chang
puhe where the forces of the great and
mighty true kingdom invade and are
repelled and this battle is the first in
Chinese history that is recorded in
enough detail for generations of
military scientists strategists and
historians to study and understand the
entirety of this engagement on the
battlefield
it's the biggest battle detailed in the
short run and after jinhwan Kong's
forces defeated the Chu he was regaled
by the Joe King as the savior of John
Wall meaning the the central state or
more specifically that Joe now pretty
much the rest of the world refers to
China as well China Lachine kina scheana
but in China they call their country
John Wall John means center central war
means Kingdom or country the Middle
Kingdom so tone our or Duke win of Jin
he becomes the first savior of junk war
for his good deed the Joe King makes
jinhwan calmly a hegemon or a bob this
sort of made him the overlord of all the
various states that still pay lip
service to the Joe kings and their
ancestors
chong'er our Duke one died in 628 BC the
state of Jean makes a big comeback on
Duke when and he is remembered for his
great help to the poor of the common
people and for promoting good and
capable administrators and the Jean
government another state was growing in
power during this time as we
transitioned from spring and autumn to
the warring States period that began
around 475 BC this was the state of wool
or the wood wall boy did they ever sit
on primo real estate the wu state was
situated north and south of the mouth of
the Yangtze River and what is today the
top of the pops best real estate in
China and Jung soo-jung province which
also comprises Shanghai the capital of
the wolf state was where su Chou is
located today now the wolf State was
soundly supported by the Jean State in
an alliance against the state of Chu
just west of the wall and south of the
Jin so the wool kings go a lot to the
support of the Jin State to get where
they got ah but the Chu State they made
alliances with the US state to the south
of who in present-day Jiujiang their
capital was in Xiao Jing where today we
get the famous shushing wine and
although the Wu cause trouble and
destruction for the truth the yeah
ultimately did them into become top of
the charts for a while I mean this is
how it was you continue to have the Joe
States sort of in the center of things
and no one takes them seriously as power
but they stay relevant for the
ceremonial roles they played and the
authority that was still vested in them
as son of heaven states were constantly
at war with each other and not to
oversimplify everything but that's the
way it goes until 221 BC when she sure
Wong puts down the last remaining states
and by his incredibly repressive ways
puts all these pieces together and
creates one single Chinese nation well
for at least a while now the warring
States Period well according to some
sources really began with the partition
of the jeans state into three smaller
kingdoms this is known as the Sancho fun
jean the the mighty Jin was sliced up
into the states of Chao Wei and Han now
remember most of what we know is coming
from the jungle at SU or these
strategies of the warring States written
right around the beginning of the Han
Dynasty during the first century BC
once again it gives a blow-by-blow
account of every single battle that went
on between every state during this
period let's jump ahead to the king of
Wu huh knew he was another great
reformer of his kingdom the wolf and he
had this capable and exceedingly loyal
general woods shoe and this amazing
military strategist named swoon whoo-hoo
Lee and his brilliant military
commanders annihilated the Chu Kingdom
and sacked their capital but the year
remember them they attacked the wall
while her Lu was away attacking the true
and everyone was attacking everyone but
the guy who was really getting the
strongest were the ones all the way out
west the Qin state anyways the
strategist Sewell who served under honu
was none other than Switzer or soon su
as he's known in the oft mispronounced
way jail system of romanization more
about him some other day well during the
warring States Period the number of
states had melted down to seven they
were chi-chuen hon way Chou and chin
what maybe eight states if you include
yeah all the way down to the south I
guess the most famous aspect to come out
of the spring and autumn and warring
States period would have to be the
Druids Abijah or the hundred schools of
thought first and foremost was Confucius
in Chinese he's known as consul he goes
by many names among them Cong foods ax
which is basically means master Kong and
from Kong food so we get Confucius
tradition calls his date of birth is
September 28 551 BC this was about the
same exact time as the birth of
Siddhartha Gautama who went on to found
Buddhism Confucius's death has been
slotted at 479 BC which on a timeline
puts his life right at the tail end of
the spring and autumn period we're going
to just look at the history of these
great sages rather than explore their
philosophy later on we'll have a series
where we maybe spend a half hour or so
on each of the Philosopher's and what
their main tenets were of their thoughts
thirteen great works that comprise the
foundation of pillars and
I guess everything he misses will throw
in the walls in the roof as well of
Chinese philosophy everything came out
of the spring and autumn and warring
States period these thirteen were first
the twin show and saw Swan which we
mentioned already the spring and autumn
annals which went hand in hand with the
chronicles of Zhou the gorge one who
explained them all and from which we
learned so much about that period second
you had the john court suit which we
also touched on the warring States
annals this gave the best account of all
the blood that flowed during the two and
a half centuries of the warring States
Period third was the loan you'd the
Analects of Confucius which were written
by the disciples of Confucius not too
long after his death the work comprises
his most core philosophy and beliefs not
to mention all the sayings which are
attributed to this greatest of sages the
Loon you make up one of the four books
or the SU shoe that gave us the
philosophy moral values and propriety
that formed the backbone of what became
known in China and in parts of Asia who
were within China's sphere of influence
as Confucian estelle use next came munsi
known as monks he was the most famous of
the disciples of Confucius he's pegged
at 372 to 289 BC which doesn't exactly
line up with some of the dates given to
the life and death of his master
Confucius most likely he was a disciple
of Confucius as grandson or someone who
followed Confucius from the house of Qom
Monza is credited with saying that the
basic goodness and decency of the
individual was influenced by the society
he grew up in therefore if society was
immoral and corrupt the individual would
be to Monza by the way was a
contemporary of Plato as Plato sort of
interpreted Socrates so did monks
interpret Confucius his great work is
eponymous and has come down to us simply
as the monkey or the monkey and with
this work he made his humble
contribution for the philosophy of
Confucianism next you had matza who like
Confucius and monks hailed from the
state of Lu in today's Shan
province he is the founder of monism or
matcha mojo rivaled Confucianism
together with Taoism Confucianism and
legalism more job made up the four main
philosophical schools of thought during
this Eastern Cho period mortices thought
was critical of Confucian and DA Louis
thought but after the Qin Emperor did is
burn the books thing and suppress all
the schools of thought save legalism and
then after the Han Dynasty adopted
Confucianism as the state philosophy of
sorts matzoh he got relegated to the
seat behind the back seat and that big
SUV of Chinese philosophy so he isn't as
well-known as the front row characters
like loud sequenza monks next up was Han
phatso who gave us legalism this
philosophy was the centerpiece of the
Qin Dynasty we talked about legalism a
little in the first podcast on g-sharp
on this philosophy was the centerpiece
of the Qin Dynasty we talked about
legalism a little in the first podcast
on Qi sharp on it called first strong
central authority and as the name
suggests and forced societies order
through strict adherence of laws the
Iguazu was another work that made up the
core of Chinese philosophy as developed
during the eastern choke period this was
written by the great administrator Guan
Zhong who we discussed before and who
did his great work under the direction
of Duke one of the cheesesteak his great
work was sort of a sort of an
encyclopedia of the times that looked at
all the philosophical thoughts of his
day which was mostly Taoism legalism and
Confucianism the eighth work well we
haven't discussed about so much if at
all no one knows when he lived or if he
ever lived most historians believe this
writer of the dalta gene was a composite
made up of multiple people and not just
a single historical person the Delta G
is the central work of Taoism this is a
long podcast in and of itself so we
won't get into lots of Natal tagine here
but he was another of the historical
figures who lived during this extremely
fertile period and chai
he's history perhaps almost as famous as
monks it would be the great skeptic
Johnson he's the one who said life is
limited but knowledge is unlimited his
great work has come down to us like that
of months up it's simply known as the
trunk so again like the others just
named and the ones to follow he came out
at the same time period that we covered
in this podcast
swoons ax aka Sun Tzu he to live during
this period in his art of war or swoon
Sabine fuh was also written during this
time well some of it this is another
very long and interesting topic go check
out the ancient world podcast on iTunes
by a chap named Kurt Watkins he is a
nice intro to students ax will feature
the great military strategist again in
some future episode here the 11th of the
thirteen great and definitive works of
this Eastern Cho period was the war you
it's known in English to those who even
know of it as the discourses of the
States and like the twin show and the
Chang qu'atsu it acts as a fount of
information about the goings on between
the various states of the time mostly
the Western Cho period which we covered
in the last podcast number 12 and 13 are
the roots or the songs of Chu and the
Asians the songs of Chu were a
collection of poems partly credited to
someone named Julian it was qu n whose
protest against the corruption and
injustice 'as of the true king led him
to commit suicide and from this act we
get Duan mu gia or the Dragon Boat
Festival which many of you have perhaps
heard of ah the shins
well like monks Ajanta matzah and feta
it was named after the philosopher who
wrote it he was a Confucian disciple who
believed man could improve himself
through education and adherence to
rituals I'm sure between now and forever
will feature all these great sages from
the eastern Cho period on podcasts yet
to come
we're already sort of running late and
we still have to finish off the Joad
eyeness tea well the warring States
period was indeed a chaotic time with an
endless battling between the rising and
falling powers and nail-biting diplomacy
but amidst all this one or chaos of the
period you had all the disciples of
Confucius and all these other schools of
thought flourish it was a time when you
hid advances in Chinese medicine
irrigation agriculture the fine arts
natural philosophy and the occult the
population of China by this time was
estimated around 20 million the last
year's of the Jo sort of played second
fiddle to the real story going on in
China at this time this was the story of
the rise of the Qin state they were the
westernmost of all the states and were
sort of looked down upon as a little
rough around the edges and you know
least of all the kingdoms to have
absorbed all the education and reforms
found in the more eastern kingdoms then
during the reign of Lord Zhao of Qin
there was a very useful and talented
nobleman named Xiang yang who was to
Lord Zhao what Gwang John was to Duke
one of Qi he was responsible for many
critical reforms in the Qin state that
made them stronger more organized more
sophisticated better administered the
only problems was that all these reforms
came at the expense of the various
feudal lords you see that was what the
Qin state was all about they were more
they more than anyone else embraced the
philosophy of legalism and rising
through the ranks by merits rather than
from your blood relationship to the king
or some noblemen when Qing Chuang
created the Empire one of the first
things he did was take all the power
away from these feudal lords and made
everyone directly dependent on the state
for their lands and their official
positions no more this hereditary stuff
anyways we discussed all this in the
very first podcast episode I'm a reload
that one to keep the continuity going of
this of this period so the chain are on
the rise thanks to the reforms of Shang
Yang who met sort of a premature end and
338 BC once his benefactor Lord Zhao
died no friend of the Qin nobility once
his protector was gone the nobles made
fast work of Shang yang
but despite this his reforms lived on
and once Qin sure Wong took power that
was the bitter end of the Golden Age of
feudalism in China well by 338 BC the
Joe day only at 80 years left before the
Qin swept them from power the last of
the Joe Kings jounin Wong he put all his
chips on the wrong horse and was allied
against the Qin when the Qin subdued all
the Joe Kings allies he too had no
choice but to offer his kingdom to the
unstoppable Qin forces and once this
happened 256 BC that was the end of the
Chou 790 years then I took another 35
years for the chain to defeat the
remaining kingdoms and in 221 BC you
have the founding of the Qin Dynasty
well to squeeze the Western and Eastern
Joe pair it into two measly podcasts is
a tall order if there ever was one we're
sort of taking a general survey of the
dynasties right now and the plan is to
keep doing this for a while and then
once we've completed this then we'll go
back and cover many of the specifics Wow
you know writing these shows on the
dynasties is getting harder and harder
so much more information later you go
we've done this shot - on the west and
east Joe we did the Qing a few months
ago the Western hung is up next with a
short one on Wang Ling and the brief Xin
dynasty then the eastern han three
kingdoms so a long way to go before
we're talking about the Shanghai Cominco
so I deeply thank everyone for sticking
with me this far today my friends I am
signing off from a scorching-hot
Claremont California folks no kidding
it's 110 degrees outside right now in
centigrade that comes to 43 degrees I
just checked it's hotter here than in
Vegas it's it's even hotter than Baker
California home of the world's tallest
thermometer but it's going to be a
hundred and ten tomorrow in Mecca so I
shouldn't feel like I'm suffering alone
take care everyone and if you're
thirsting for more details about this
period we discussed today rest assured
we're going to come back another day a
cooler day I hope and revisit and take a
closer look at some of the
fascinating historical personages of
this time as well as their great works
visit me anytime at the China History
podcast.com send an email read my blog
that I have an updated since September
3rd take care everyone